Add documentation for gcp-broker-provider (#1774)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/service-brokers/helm-broker-service-classes/gcp-broker-provider/docs/plans-details.md

| `Default` | Installs the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Service Broker in a default configuration. |

## Provisioning

>**NOTE:** You can provision only one instance of the GCP Service Broker Provider in each Namespace.

To add GCP Broker Provider to your namespace you first need to prepare a service account and a 
JSON access key. 

To create a Kubernetes Secret entry containing JSON access key perform the following steps:
1. Open https://console.cloud.google.com/ and select your project.
2. Go to **IAM & admin** -> **Service accounts**.
3. Click **Create service account**.
4. Assign `Project Owner` role.
5. Click **Create key** and choose `JSON` as key type.
6. Save file to a known location.
7. Create a secret from the JSON file:

```
kubectl create secret generic gcp-broker-data --from-file=sa-key={filename} --from-literal=project-name=kyma-project --namespace {namespace}
```

Please note that you have to create a secret in every namespace where the GCP Broker Provider class is provisioned.

In the Service Catalog view click **Google Cloud Platform Service Broker Provider**.
Provisioning of this class adds GCP Service Broker classes to the Service Catalog in a given namespace.

> The service account key created by user is used to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service account key is used to 
```

> generate service account keys used by brokers installed in different namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generate service account keys used by brokers installed in different Namespaces.
```

The generated service account key has a **roles/servicebroker.operator** role and is 

> used during provisioning/deprovisioning/binding/unbinding actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
used during provisioning, deprovisioning, binding, and unbinding actions.
```

Reviewer: Ok, but we mention that binding and unbinding do not apply to this class, don't we?

![](assets/gcp-broker-key-management.svg)

Flow of the provisioning process is described by following diagram

![GCP Broker Provisioning](assets/gcp-broker-provisioning.svg)

1. User triggers provision action
2. During the provisioning process new service account and access key are created in **Google Cloud Platform**

> 3. After the provisioning process is over the post install job is triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After the provisioning process, the post-install job is triggered.
```

## Binding

Binding to this Service Class is disabled.

## Deprovisioning

Flow of the deprovisioning process is described by following diagram

![GCP Broker Deprovisioning](assets/gcp-broker-deprovisioning.svg)

> 1. User triggers deprovision action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The user triggers the deprovisioning action.
```

> 2. If secret is present access keys are removed from **Google Cloud Platform**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the Secret is present, access keys are removed from the Google Cloud Platform.
```

---
title: Services and Plans
type: Details
---

## Service description

The `gcp-broker-provider` service provides the following plan names and descriptions:

| Plan Name | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `Default` | Installs the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Service Broker in a default configuration. |

## Provisioning

>**NOTE:** You can provision only one instance of the GCP Service Broker Provider in each Namespace.

To add GCP Broker Provider to your Namespace, you must prepare a service account and a 
JSON access key. 

Follow these steps to create a Kubernetes Secret which contains a JSON access key:
1. Open https://console.cloud.google.com/ and select your project.
2. On the left pane, go to **IAM & admin** and select **Service accounts**.
3. Click **Create service account**, name your account, and click **Create**.
4. Set the `Project Owner` role.
5. Click **Create key** and choose `JSON` as a key type.
6. Save the `JSON` file.
7. Create a Secret from the JSON file by running this command:
    ```
    kubectl create secret generic gcp-broker-data --from-file=sa-key={filename} --from-literal=project-name={gcp-project} --namespace {namespace}
    ```

> 8. Click **Done**

Author: Without it the account is not really created, we made this mistake ourselves

4. Set the `Project Owner` role.
5. Click **Create key** and choose `JSON` as a key type.
6. Save the `JSON` file.
7. Create a Secret from the JSON file by running this command:
    ```
    kubectl create secret generic gcp-broker-data --from-file=sa-key={filename} --from-literal=project-name={gcp-project} --namespace {namespace}
    ```

8. Click **Done**

>**NOTE:** You must create a Secret in every Namespace where you provision the GCP Broker Provider class.

The service account key is used to 
generate service account keys used by brokers installed in different Namespaces.
The generated service account key has a **roles/servicebroker.operator** role and is 
used during provisioning, deprovisioning, binding, and unbinding actions.

![](assets/gcp-broker-key-management.svg)

Provisioning and deprovisioning processes use the [GCP Broker Provider](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/master/tools/gcp-broker-provider) tool.

The provisioning process flow looks as follows:
1. The user triggers the provisioning action.
2. Provisioning script checks if secret exists in a given namespace and downloads it.

> 3. gcloud CLI is configured based on values from secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The script configures gcloud CLI basing on values from the Secret.
```

> 4. [sc](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/k8s-service-catalog) CLI is used to add GCP Broker to Kyma cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The script uses the [sc](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/k8s-service-catalog) CLI to add the GCP Broker to the Kyma cluster.
```

> 5. `sc` CLI creates service account and access key on the Google Cloud Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The `sc` CLI creates a service account and access key on the Google Cloud Platform.
```

6. After the provisioning process, the post-install job is triggered.

![GCP Broker Provisioning](assets/gcp-broker-provisioning.svg)

In the Service Catalog view, click **Google Cloud Platform Service Broker Provider**.
Provisioning of this class adds GCP Service Broker classes to the Service Catalog in a given Namespace.

## Binding

Binding to this Service Class is disabled.

## Deprovisioning

The deprovisioning process flow looks as follows:
1. The user triggers the deprovisioning action.
2. Provisioning script checks if secret exists in a given namespace and downloads it. 
   If secret does not exist the `sc` CLI is executed with the `--skip-gcp-integration` parameter (step 6) 

> 3. gcloud CLI is configured based on values from secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The script configures gcloud CLI basing on values from the Secret.
```
